As mentioned in the last lecture, we want to maybe protect some of our routes and we can use a feature
offered by Angular which allows us to run some code at a point of time defined by us.
I will add a new file in our root folder and I will name it auth-guard.service.ts because the
code we run there is stored in such a service.
I'll name it
auth guard though because the feature of the @angular/router is called guards, it guards certain actions
like navigating to, around or away from it.
But in the end, it is a normal service and therefore as such, I will export a class which I'll name
AuthGuard,
now you could add service here to be fully in line with all the other services
but since we will only use this as a guard, I will leave it at the auth guard name
and now here, I will implement the canActivate interface.
This interface is provided by the @angular/router package,
so you need to import it and it forces you to have a canActivate method in this class.
The canActivate method now will receive two arguments, the
ActivatedRouteSnapshot and the state of the router, so the RouterStateSnapshot.
So make sure to also add these imports at the top here from an @angular/router and to add them here
as types for the two parameters we get in canActivate.
Now you might ask, where are we getting these arguments from?
Keep in mind, we'll soon define that Angular should execute this code before a route is loaded,
so it will give us this data and we simply need to be able to handle the data. So that is canActivate
with the arguments it requires, canActivate also returns something, it either returns an observable,
so make sure to import observable, from rxjs/Observable is the correct path
in this case. This observable then will wrap a boolean,
so it will in the end resolve to a true or false value.
Alternatively this route returns a promise, also returning the boolean in the end or it returns just
a boolean. So canActivate can run both asynchronously, returning an observable or a promise or synchronously
because you might have some guards which execute some code which runs completely on the client,
therefore it runs synchronously or you might have some code which takes a couple of seconds to finish
because you use a timeout in there or you reach out to a server,
so it runs asynchronously and both is possible with canActivate,
you'll see an example in a second.
So here, we want to be able to login or out. For this,
let's say we have another service, the auth service and this is just a fake service here.
So I will name it auth service and in a real application, this might reach out to a server and allow
us to login or logout and check our current authentication state.
I will track the state here too with the loggedIn property which is set to false initially and then
I'll add a login method which will set loggedIn to true just like this and a logout method
which was set loggedIn to false, to again fake this behavior. And I will have a method which allows
us to check the state, authenticated
and here I want to simulate that this takes some time to finish because maybe we reach out to a server.
Therefore here, I will return a promise, a new promise therefore, this promise will as always take a
method, a function as an argument with the resolve and reject methods we can execute
and in this promise, here I will execute setTimeout to wait let's say 800 milliseconds and then
execute another method in which I will resolve the promise and return this loggedIn, again just to
fake that this takes a couple of seconds to finish or some time to finish.
So with this auth service added, I now want to use it in my auth guard and as this is also just a service,
we need to add @injectable to be able to reach out to the other service, to inject that service into this guard.
So make sure to import @injectable from @angular/core and then I will add a constructor to my auth guard
where I reach out to my fake auth service here, of type auth service,
therefore make sure to add this import too and now in the canActivate guard, I simply want to check
whether the user is logged in or not.
So here, I can reach out to my auth service, to the isAuthenticates method which again keep in mind returns
a promise,
well therefore we should return this promise here I guess.
So it returns us this promise and here, I then want to be able to handle that whenever this promise in the
auth service resolves,
I know that there, I will get back a boolean,
so this authentication state, this loggedIn boolean is what we resolve here in the end
and this could be false or true.
So I know that I will get back a boolean and here, I then want to check if this is true, in which case
I want to return true and otherwise, I want to navigate away because I don't want to allow the user access
to the route you wanted to go to originally,
I will navigate away to force the user to go somewhere else.
So I will inject the Angular router for this because this is how we can navigate with the navigate method,
make sure to add the import from @angular/router and then here, we can navigate with the navigate
method and let's say we just want to go back to our root page with just slash.
So in this case, our canActivate method will navigate away and I will now simply return this promise it
still is in the end because if we return something inside of the promise, it will give us back another
promise.
So now we're returning a promise here which gives us back true or simply navigates us away, canceling
the old navigation anyways therefore.
So this now allows us to control access to whatever is controlled by this canActivate guard
here.
Now we're still not using this guard of course.
So to use it, I'll go to my app-routing.module and now we want to define which route or routes should
be protected by this guard and we do so by going to that route,
it's the servers route and all its child routes and adding canActivate, this property to it.
Now canActivate takes an array of all the code basically, all the guards you want to apply to this route
and it will automatically get applied to all the child routes. So here, canActivate will use my
auth guard,
make sure to add the import here pointing to your file and this will make sure that servers is now only
accessible and all the child routes, only accessible if the auth guard canActivate method returns true in
the end which will only happen if in the auth service, loggedIn is set to true.
Since this is set to false and right now we never call login,
this should always deny us access.
Now before trying this, we need to go to our app module and add to the two new services we added.
So add the auth service and the auth guard which also is a service,
otherwise Angular won't be able to inject them for us.
So with that set up, let's go to our application, click on servers and I can click there as often as I
want,
I can't reach it.
Users works but servers always navigates us back to home after this 800 milliseconds because that is
how long it takes to resolve the information whether we are authenticated or not,
we defined these 800 seconds here. So our guard is working,
however on our whole servers tab.
Now I want to be able to see the list of servers and only protected child routes,
how can we do this?